End-to-End Renewable Energy Analytics Project

PostgreSQL | SQL | Power BI | Data Modeling
📌 Project Overview
This project is a complete End-to-End Data Analytics Pipeline designed to analyze renewable energy production (Solar & Wind). The workflow involves extracting raw data from a CSV, managing it within a relational database, and building an interactive dashboard to derive business insights.

🏗️ Architecture & Workflow
Data Source: Raw energy production data in CSV format.
Database Layer (Storage): Created a structured schema in PostgreSQL (pgAdmin 4). [cite: 05-01-2026]
Data Ingestion (ETL): Used SQL COPY commands to migrate data while handling date-time formatting issues.
Analytics Layer: Established a live connection to Power BI, performed data cleaning via Power Query, and created complex calculations using DAX.
Visualization: Designed a high-impact dashboard for seasonal and source-wise analysis.



🛠️ Technical Implementation
1. SQL & Database Management
Database: Energy_Analytics
Table Schema: Defined columns for Date, Source, Production, Season, and hourly intervals.

2. Data Transformation (Power Query)
Data Type Formatting: Converted the Production column to Whole Number and standardized the Date column for time-series analysis.
Schema Cleaning: Handled null values and verified categorical consistency for Season (Summer, Winter, Fall, Spring).

3. Advanced Analytics (DAX)
Created the following measures for dynamic reporting:
Total Production: SUM('public energy_production'[production])
Avg Hourly Production: AVERAGE('public energy_production'[production])



📊 Dashboard Insights
Seasonal Analysis: Discovered that Solar production peaks in Summer, while Wind energy is more stable during the Winter and Fall seasons.
Interactive Features: Implemented Slicers for 'Season' and 'Source' to allow real-time data filtering.
Performance Metrics: Visualized hourly production trends to identify peak generation windows.


🎯 Key Learnings
Building a live connection between a SQL database and a BI tool.
Writing optimized SQL queries for data ingestion.
Using DAX for professional business calculations instead of basic Excel-style dragging.
